# Design_and_Simulation_of_DC-DC_Boost_Converter_for_PV_Applications
Hey everyone!
This repository contains mine and my teammates work of our B.Tech EEE final yaer project on Design and Simulation of DC-DC Boost Converter for PV Applications and given below is a short abstract of what the project is. 
Renewable sources of energy and Distributed Generation are the emerging technology nowadays. Due to the unprecedented decline in the availability of natural resources there is an increasing concern on how to produce electricity to keep up with the world’s demand. Hence as an alternative we have opted to switch to non - conventional sources of energy like solar energy, wind energy, etc to produce electricity. The most leading technology being electricity produced from solar energy through solar panels. A major challenge for such PV systems is the low voltage conversion ratio of the dc-dc converter used in the system with a maximum efficiency of 15%. A dc-dc converter with high voltage gain and low voltage stress is important for PV applications since it plays a decisive role on how much output we are able to gain from the PV system. DC–DC boost converters with better performances, including improved voltage gain, efficiency, power density, and reliability, are urgently needed for wide conversion range applications. A detailed discussion for the design and simulation of a single-inductor boost converter (SLBC) with ultrahigh voltage boosting capability which can be employed to make the system more efficient is being discussed in this project.
